Improve Contribution Doc (#2043)
huggingface/diffusers: CONTRIBUTING.md

If you are unsure or stuck in the PR, don't hesitate to leave a message to ask for a first review or help.

## How to write a good issue

**The better your issue is written, the higher the chances that it will be quickly resolved by the maintainers.**

1. Make sure that you've used the correct template for your issue. You can pick between *Bug Report*, *Feature Request*, *Feedback about API Design*, *New model/pipeline/scheduler addition*, *Forum*, or a blank issue. Make sure to pick the correct one when opening [a new issue](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/issues/new/choose).
2. **Be precise**: Give your issue a fitting title. Try to formulate your issue description as simple as possible. The more precise you are when submitting an issue, the less time it takes to understand the issue and potentially solve it. Make sure to open an issue for one issue only and not for multiple issues. If you found multiple issues, simply open multiple issues. If your issue is a bug, try to be as precise as possible about what bug it is - you should not just write "Error in diffusers".

> 3. **Reproducibility**: No reproducible code snippet == no solution. If you encounter a bug, maintainers **have to be able to reproduce** it. Make sure that you include a code snippet that can be copy-pasted into a Python interpreter to reproduce the issue. Make sure that your code snippet works, *i.e.* that they are no missing imports or missing links to images, ... Your issue should contain an error message **and** a code snippet that can be copy-pasted without any changes to reproduce the exact same error message. If your issue is using local model weights or local data that cannot be accessed by the reader, the issue cannot be solved. If you cannot share your data or model, try to make a dummy model or dummy data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Reproducibility**: No reproducible code snippet == no solution. If you encounter a bug, maintainers **have to be able to reproduce** it. Make sure that you include a code snippet that can be copy-pasted into a Python interpreter to reproduce the issue. Make sure that your code snippet works, *i.e.* that there are no missing imports or missing links to images, ... Your issue should contain an error message **and** a code snippet that can be copy-pasted without any changes to reproduce the exact same error message. If your issue is using local model weights or local data that cannot be accessed by the reader, the issue cannot be solved. If you cannot share your data or model, try to make a dummy model or dummy data.
```

consulting the issue know you are working on it);
6. To indicate a work in progress please prefix the title with `[WIP]`. These
are useful to avoid duplicated work, and to differentiate it from PRs ready
to be merged;
7. Try to formulate and format your text as explained in [How to write a good issue](#how-to-write-a-good-issue).
8. Make sure existing tests pass;
9. Add high-coverage tests. No quality testing = no merge.
- If you are adding new `@slow` tests, make sure they pass using
`RUN_SLOW=1 python -m pytest tests/test_my_new_model.py`.
CircleCI does not run the slow tests, but GitHub actions does every night!
10. All public methods must have informative docstrings that work nicely with markdown. See `[pipeline_latent_diffusion.py](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/src/diffusers/pipelines/latent_diffusion/pipeline_latent_diffusion.py)` for an example.
11. Due to the rapidly growing repository, it is important to make sure that no files that would significantly weigh down the repository are added. This includes images, videos, and other non-text files. We prefer to leverage a hf.co hosted `dataset` like

> the ones hosted on [`hf-internal-testing`](https://huggingface.co/hf-internal-testing) in which to place these files and reference or [huggingface/documentation-images](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`hf-internal-testing`](https://huggingface.co/hf-internal-testing) or [huggingface/documentation-images](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images) to place these files.
```

<!--Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# How to contribute to Diffusers 🧨

We ❤️ contributions from the open-source community! Everyone is welcome, and all types of participation –not just code– are valued and appreciated. Answering questions, helping others, reaching out, and improving the documentation are all immensely valuable to the community, so don't be afraid and get involved if you're up for it!

> Everyone is encouraged to start by saying 👋 in our public Discord channel. We discuss the hottest trends about diffusion models, ask questions, show off personal projects, help each other with contributions, or just hang out ☕. <a href="https://Discord.gg/G7tWnz98XR"><img alt="Join us on Discord" src="https://img.shields.io/Discord/823813159592001537?color=5865F2&logo=Discord&logoColor=white"></a>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Everyone is encouraged to start by saying 👋 in our public Discord channel. We discuss the latest trends in diffusion models, ask questions, show off personal projects, help each other with contributions, or just hang out ☕. <a href="https://Discord.gg/G7tWnz98XR"><img alt="Join us on Discord" src="https://img.shields.io/Discord/823813159592001537?color=5865F2&logo=Discord&logoColor=white"></a>
```

I feel like "hottest" has got a negative / inappropriate ring to it.

## Overview

You can contribute in many ways ranging from answering questions on issues to adding new diffusion models to
the core library.

In the following, we give an overview of different ways to contribute, ranked by difficulty in ascending order.

* 1. Asking and answering questions on [the Diffusers discussion forum](https://discuss.huggingface.co/c/discussion-related-to-httpsgithubcomhuggingfacediffusers) or on [Discord](https://discord.gg/G7tWnz98XR).
* 2. Opening new issues on [the GitHub Issues tab](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/issues/new/choose)
* 3. Answering issues on [the GitHub Issues tab](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/issues)
* 4. Fix a simple issue, marked by the "Good first issue" label, see [here](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22).
* 5. Contribute to the [documentation](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/docs/source).
* 6. Contribute a [Community Pipeline](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Acommunity-examples)

> * 7. Contribute to the [examples](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/examples).

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can also mention "research project" in the scope of this point?

* 8. Fix a more difficult issue, marked by the "Good second issue" label, see [here](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Good+second+issue%22).
* 9. Add a new pipeline, model, and, or pipeline, see ["New Pipeline/Model"](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22New+pipeline%2Fmodel%22) and ["New scheduler"](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22New+scheduler%22) issues. For this contribution, please have a look at [Design Philosophy](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/PHILOSOPHY.md).

As said before, **all contributions are valuable to the community**.
In the following, we will explain each contribution a bit more in detail.

> For all contributions 4.-9. you will need to open a PR. It is explained in detail how to do so in [Opening a pull requst](#how-to-open-a-pr)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For all contributions from pt. 4 - 9, you will need to open a PR. It is explained in detail how to do so in [Opening a pull requst](#how-to-open-a-pr)
```

### 1. Asking and answering questions on the Diffusers discussion forum or on the Diffusers Discord

Any question or comment related to the Diffusers library can be asked on the [discussion forum](https://discuss.huggingface.co/c/discussion-related-to-httpsgithubcomhuggingfacediffusers/) or on [Discord](https://discord.gg/G7tWnz98XR). Such questions and comments include (but are not limited to):
- Reports of training or inference experiments in an attempt to share knowledge
- Presentation of personal projects
- Questions to non-official training examples
- Project proposals
- General feedback
- Paper summaries
- Asking for help on personal projects that build on top of the Diffusers library
- General questions
- Ethical questions regarding diffusion models

> - ...

Reviewer 2: Is this one needed?

If a certain design choice is very useful for you, please also leave a note as this is great feedback for future design decisions.

You can open an issue about feedback [here](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=feedback.md&title=).

#### 2.4 Technical questions. 

Technical questions are mainly about why certain code of the library was written in a certain way, or what a certain part of the code does. Please make sure to link to the code in question and please provide detail on
why this part of the code is difficult to understand.

You can open an issue about a technical question [here](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug&template=bug-report.yml).

#### 2.5 Proposal to add a new model, scheduler, or pipeline.

If the diffusion model community released a new model, pipeline, or scheduler that you would like to see in the Diffusers library, please provide the following information:

* Short description of the diffusion pipeline, model, or scheduler and link to the paper or public release.

> * Link to the implementation of it is open-source.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Link to any of its open-source implementation.
```

* Link to the model weights if they are available.

If you are willing to contribute to the model yourself, let us know so we can best guide you. Also, don't forget

> tag the author by GitHub handle if you can find it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
tag the original author of the component (model, scheduler, pipeline, etc.) by GitHub handle if you can find it.
```

You can open a request for a model/pipeline/scheduler [here](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/issues/new?assignees=&labels=New+model%2Fpipeline%2Fscheduler&template=new-model-addition.yml).

### 3. Answering issues on the GitHub issues tab

Answering issues on GitHub might require some technical knowledge of Diffusers, but we encourage everybody to give it a try even if you are not 100% certain that your answer is correct.
Some tips to give a high-quality answer to an issue:
- Be as concise and minimal as possible
- Stay on topic. An answer to the issue should concern the issue and only the issue.
- Provide links to code, papers, or other sources that prove or encourage your point.
- Answer in code. If a simple code snippet is the answer to the issue or shows how the issue can be solved, please provide a fully reproducible code snippet.

Also, many issues tend to be simply off-topic, duplicates of other issues, or irrelevant. It is of great

> help the maintainers if you can answer such issues, encouraging the author of the issue to be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
help to the maintainers if you can answer such issues, encouraging the author of the issue to be
```

more precise, provide the link to a duplicated issue or redirect them to [the forum](https://discuss.huggingface.co/c/discussion-related-to-httpsgithubcomhuggingfacediffusers/63) or [Discord](https://discord.gg/G7tWnz98XR)

If you have verified that the issued bug report is correct and requires a correction in the source code,
please have a look at the next sections.

> For all of the following contributions, you will need to open a PR. It is explained in detail how to do so in [Opening a pull requst](#how-to-open-a-pr)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For all of the following contributions, you will need to open a PR. It is explained in detail how to do so in the [Opening a pull requst](#how-to-open-a-pr) section.
```

### 4. Fixing a "Good first issue"

*Good first issues* are marked by the [Good first issue](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) label. Usually, the issue already
explains how a potential solution should look so that it is easier to fix.
If the issue hasn't been closed and you would like to try to fix this issue, you can just leave a message "I would like to try this issue.". There are usually three scenarios:

> - a.) The issue description already proposes a fix. In this case and if the solution makes sense to you, you can open a PR or work-in-progress PR to fix it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- a.) The issue description already proposes a fix. In this case and if the solution makes sense to you, you can open a PR or draft PR to fix it.
```

> - b.) The issue description does not propose a fix. In this case, you can ask what a proposed fix could look like and someone should answer shortly. If you have a good idea of how to fix it, feel free to directly open a PR.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- b.) The issue description does not propose a fix. In this case, you can ask what a proposed fix could look like and someone from the Diffusers team should answer shortly. If you have a good idea of how to fix it, feel free to directly open a PR.
```

No strong opinions about this suggestion, though.

### 5. Contribute to the documentation

A good library **always** has good documentation! The official documentation is often one of the first points of contact with a user of the library and therefore contributing to the documentation is a **highly
valuable contribution**.

Contributing to the library can have many forms:

- Correcting spelling or grammatical errors.
- Correct incorrect formatting of the docstring. If you see that the official documentation is weirdly displayed or a link is broken, we are very happy if you take some time to correct it.
- Correct the shape or dimensions of a docstring input or output tensor.

> - Clarify documentation that is hard to understand or incorrect

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Clarify documentation that is hard to understand or incorrect.
```

- Update outdated code examples.
- Translating the documentation to another language.

> - etc...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Anything displayed on [the official Diffusers doc page](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/index) is part of the official documentation and can be corrected, adjusted in the respective [documentation source](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/docs/source).

Please have a look at [this page](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/docs) on how to verify changes made to the documentation locally.

### 6. Contribute a community pipeline

[Pipelines](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/api/pipelines/overview) are usually the first point of contact between the Diffusers library and the user.
Pipelines are examples of how to use Diffusers [models](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/api/models) and [schedulers](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/api/schedulers/overview).
We support two types of pipelines:

- Official Pipelines
- Community Pipelines

Both official and community pipelines follow the same design and consist of the same type of components.

> Official pipelines are tested and maintained by the core Diffusers' core maintainers. Their code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Official pipelines are tested and maintained by the core maintainers of Diffusers. Their code
```

resides in [src/diffusers/pipelines](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/src/diffusers/pipelines).
In contrast, community pipelines are contributed and maintained purely by the **community** and are **not** tested.

> They reside in [examples/community](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/examples/community) and while they can be accessed via the PyPI diffusers package (see [here](https://pypi.org/project/diffusers/)), their code is not part of the Pypi diffusers package.

Reviewer 2: Not clear what is meant by:

> [...] while they can be accessed via the PyPI diffusers package (see [here](https://pypi.org/project/diffusers/)), their code is not part of the Pypi diffusers package.

> The reason for the distinction is that the Diffusers core-maintainers simply cannot maintain and test all

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The reason for the distinction is that the Diffusers' core-maintainers simply cannot maintain and test all
```

possible ways diffusion models can be used for inference.
Officially released diffusion pipelines,
such as Stable Diffusion are added to the core src/diffusers/pipelines package which ensures

high quality of maintenance, no backward-breaking code changes, and testing.

> More edge-casy, unofficial pipelines should be added as community pipelines. If usage for a community pipeline is high, the pipeline can be moved to the official pipelines upon request from the community.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
More bleeding edge pipelines should be added as community pipelines. If usage for a community pipeline is high, the pipeline can be moved to the official pipelines upon request from the community. This is one of the ways we strive to be a community-driven library.
```

To add a community pipeline, one should add a <name-of-the-community>.py file to [examples/community](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/examples/community) and adapt the [examples/community/README.md](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/examples/community/README.md) to include an example of the new pipeline.

> TODO(PVP:Copy&Paste test from the issue)

Author: ```suggestion
An example can be seen [here](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/pull/2400).
```

Community pipeline PRs are only checked at a superficial level and it is desired to be maintained by the author.

Contributing a community pipeline is a great way to understand how Diffusers models and schedulers work. Having contributed a community pipeline is usually the first stepping stone to contributing an official pipeline to the

> core package.

Reviewer 2: We should maybe also link a PR of an example community pipeline. Having a reference PR is almost always very useful for contributors.

### 7. Contribute to training examples

Diffusers examples are a collection of training scripts that reside in [examples](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/examples).

We support two types of training examples:

- Official training examples
- Research training examples

Research training examples are located in [examples/research_projects](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/examples/research_projects) whereas official training examples include all folders under [examples](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/examples) except the `research_projects` and `community` folders.

> The official training examples are maintained by the Diffusers core-maintainers whereas the research training examples are maintained by the community.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The official training examples are maintained by the Diffusers' core-maintainers whereas the research training examples are maintained by the community.
```

> This is because of the same reasons put forward in [6. Contribute a community pipeline](#contribute-a-community-pipeline) for official pipelines vs. community pipelines: It is not feasible for the core maintainers to maintain all possible training methods for diffusion models.

Reviewer 2: Let's settle with either "core maintainers" or "core-maintainers".

If the Diffusers core-maintainers and community judges a certain training paradigm is not popular enough or too experimental, the corresponding training code should be put in the `research_projects` folder and maintained by the author.

Both official training and research examples consist of a directory that contains one or more training scripts, a requirements.txt file, and a README.md file. In order for the user to make use of the

> training examples, it is required to git clone the repository:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
training examples, it is required to clone the repository:
```

```
git clone https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers
```

as well as to install all additional dependencies required for training:

```
pip install -r /examples/<your-example-folder>/requirements.txt
```

> Therefore when adding an example, the requirements.txt file shall define all pip dependencies required for your training example so that once all those are installed the user can run the example's training script, as an example, see the [dreambooth requirements.txt file](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/examples/dreambooth/requirements.txt).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore when adding an example, the `requirements.txt` file shall define all pip dependencies required for your training example so that once all those are installed, the user can run the example's training script, as an example, see the [DreamBooth requirements.txt file](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/examples/dreambooth/requirements.txt).
```

Training examples of the Diffusers library should adhere to the following philosophy:
- All the code necessary to run the examples should be found in a single Python file
- One should be able to run the example from the command line with `python <your-example>.py --args`

> - Examples should be kept simple and serve as **an example** on how to use Diffusers for training. The purpose of example scripts is **not** to create state-of-the-art diffusion models, but rather to reproduce known training schemes without adding too much custom logic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Examples should be kept simple and serve as **an example** on how to use Diffusers for training. The purpose of example scripts is **not** to create state-of-the-art diffusion models, but rather to reproduce known training schemes without adding too much custom logic. As a byproduct of this point, our examples also strive to serve as good educational materials.
```

No strong opinions.

To contribute an example, it is highly recommended to look at already existing examples such as [dreambooth](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/examples/dreambooth/train_dreambooth.py) to get an idea of how they should look like.
We strongly advise contributors to make use of the [Accelerate library](https://github.com/huggingface/accelerate) as it's tightly integrated
with Diffusers.

> Once an example script works, please make sure to add a nice README.md that states how to use the example exactly. This README should:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once an example script works, please make sure to add a comprehensive `README.md` that states how to use the example exactly. This README should:
```

- A link to some training results (logs, models, ...) that show what the user can expect as shown [here e.g.](https://api.wandb.ai/report/patrickvonplaten/xm6cd5q5).
- If you are adding a non-official/research training example, **please don't forget** to add a sentence that you are maintaining this training example which includes your git handle as shown [here](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/examples/research_projects/intel_opts#diffusers-examples-with-intel-optimizations).

If you are contributing to the official training examples, please also make sure to add a test to [examples/test_examples.py](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/examples/test_examples.py). This is not necessary for non-official training examples.

### 8. Fixing a "Good second issue"

*Good second issues* are marked by the [Good second issue](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Good+second+issue%22) label. Good second issues are
usually more complicated to solve than [Good first issues](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22).

> The issue description gives normally less guidance on how to example fix the issue and requires

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The issue description usually gives less guidance on how to fix the issue and requires
a decent understanding of the library by the interested contributor.
```

> a decent understanding of the library by the user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a decent understanding of the library by the interested contributor.
```

If you are interested in tackling a second good issue, feel free to open a PR to fix it and link the PR to the issue. If you see that a PR has already been opened for this issue but did not get merged, have a look to understand why it wasn't merged and try to open an improved PR.

> Good second issues are usually more difficult to get merged compared to good first issues, so don't hesitate to ask for help from the core maintainers. If your PR is almost finished the core maintainers can also jump into your PR and commit to it in order to get it merged.

Reviewer 2: > If your PR is almost finished the core maintainers can also jump into your PR and commit to it in order to get it merged.

In order for us to do this, the PR needs to have "Editable by maintainers" checked. Otherwise, it's not possible.

Author: Yeah but think that's the default - it's very rare that it's not the case in my experience

7. Think of your issue not as a ticket to be solved, but rather as a beautiful entry to a well-written encyclopedia. Every added issue is a contribution to publicly available knowledge and by adding a nicely written issue you not only make it easier for maintainers to solve your issue, but you are helping the whole community to better understand a certain aspect of the library.

## How to write a good PR

1. Be a chameleon. Understand existing design patterns and syntax and make sure your code additions flow seamlessly into the existing code base. Pull requests that significantly diverge from existing design patterns or user interfaces will not be merged.
2. Be laser focused. A pull request should solve one problem and one problem only. Make sure to not fall into the trap of "also fixing another problem while we're adding it". It is much more difficult to review pull requests that solve multiple, unrelated problems at once.
3. If helpful, try to add a code snippet that displays an example of how your addition can be used.

> 4. The title of your pull request should be a summary of its contribution;

Reviewer 2: Consistency on the usage of "." and ";" to end sentences.

5. If your pull request addresses an issue, please mention the issue number in
the pull request description to make sure they are linked (and people
consulting the issue know you are working on it);
6. To indicate a work in progress please prefix the title with `[WIP]`. These
are useful to avoid duplicated work, and to differentiate it from PRs ready
to be merged;
7. Try to formulate and format your text as explained in [How to write a good issue](#how-to-write-a-good-issue).
8. Make sure existing tests pass;
9. Add high-coverage tests. No quality testing = no merge.
- If you are adding new `@slow` tests, make sure they pass using
`RUN_SLOW=1 python -m pytest tests/test_my_new_model.py`.

> - If you are adding a new tokenizer, write tests, and make sure

Reviewer 2: Do we need this?

Author: Haha no not at all good catch!

> - If you are adding a new tokenizer, write tests, and make sure

Author: ```suggestion
```

> `RUN_SLOW=1 python -m pytest tests/test_tokenization_{your_model_name}.py` passes.

Author: ```suggestion
```

As you work on the features, you should make sure that the test suite
passes. You should run the tests impacted by your changes like this:

 ```bash
 $ pytest tests/<TEST_TO_RUN>.py
 ```

You can also run the full suite with the following command, but it takes
a beefy machine to produce a result in a decent amount of time now that
Diffusers has grown a lot. Here is the command for it:

 ```bash
 $ make test
 ```

🧨 Diffusers relies on `black` and `isort` to format its source code
consistently. After you make changes, apply automatic style corrections and code verifications
that can't be automated in one go with:

 ```bash
 $ make style
 ```

🧨 Diffusers also uses `ruff` and a few custom scripts to check for coding mistakes. Quality
control runs in CI, however, you can also run the same checks with:

 ```bash
 $ make quality
 ```

Once you're happy with your changes, add changed files using `git add` and
make a commit with `git commit` to record your changes locally:

 ```bash
 $ git add modified_file.py
 $ git commit
 ```

It is a good idea to sync your copy of the code with the original
repository regularly. This way you can quickly account for changes:

 ```bash

>  $ git pull upstream main

Author: pull is fetch + merge so think this should be fine no?

>  $ git pull upstream main

Reviewer: Yes, you are right, I'm used to manually fetch + merge when inside a branch.
